.TH MYMAN 6 "31 May 2008" "@MYMAN@ @MYMANVERSION@" "The MyMan Manual"
.\" myman.man - the MyMan manual
.\" Copyright 2003, 2006-2008, Benjamin C. Wiley Sittler <bsittler@gmail.com>
.\"
.\"  Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
.\"  are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
.\"  notice and this notice are preserved.
.\"
.\" NOTE: @this_file_undergoes_variable_substitution@
.\"
.SH NAME
@MYMAN_EXE@, @XMYMAN_EXE@, @XMYMAN2_EXE@, @XMYMAN3_EXE@, @XMYMAN4_EXE@, @XBIGMAN_EXE@, @XHUGEMAN_EXE@, @XBITMAN_EXE@, @XBITMAN2_EXE@, @XBITMAN3_EXE@, @XBITMAN4_EXE@, @XBITMAN5_EXE@, @XBITMAN6_EXE@, @XQUACKMAN_EXE@, @MYMAN_CT_EXE@ \- the MyMan video game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
[\-v
.I variant
]
[\-z
.I size
]
[\-h]
[\-V]
[\-b|\-q]
[\-c|\-n]
[\-B|\-N]
[\-o|\-p]
[\-d
.I num
]
.RI [\-D " name" [= value "] ... ]"
[\-g
.I num
]
[\-l
.I num
]
[\-u|\-U]
[\-a|\-A]
[\-i|\-I]
[\-r|\-R]
[\-e|\-E]
[\-x|\-X]
[\-1|\-2]
[\-m
.I file
]
[\-s
.I file
]
[\-t
.I file
]
[\-M]
[\-S]
[\-T]
[\-f
.I file
]
[\-F
.I file
]
[ \-\-
.RI [ toolkit-options ] ...
]

.RS
.B NOTE:
The optional \fItoolkit-options\fP are only accepted when
.B myman
is built with PDCurses for X (a.k.a. XCurses)
.RE

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XMYMAN_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XMYMAN2_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XMYMAN3_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XMYMAN4_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBIGMAN_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XHUGEMAN_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBITMAN_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBITMAN2_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBITMAN3_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBITMAN4_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBITMAN5_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XBITMAN6_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B @SHELL@ \fI@bindir@/\fP@XQUACKMAN_EXE@@SH_SUFFIX@
.RI [ options ] ...

.B ctheme \fI@bindir@/\fP@MYMAN_CT_EXE@
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Basic premise of the MyMan video game:
.RS
.PP
\fI\*(lqThose scary monsters are back, and this time they've spotted
you! What's worse is that they've mistaken you for their old rival
Pac, and they're out for (yellow) blood!\*(rq\fP
.RE
.PP
This is a fast-paced video game using the
.BR @CURSES_FLAVOR@ (@CURSES_FLAVOR_SECTION@)
library to display on @CURSES_FLAVOR_TARGET@.
.SS "LEGAL NOTICE"
.PP
MyMan is an unofficial and unlicensed clone of the original Pac-Man
and Puckman games and of their sequels and imitators, and is not
endorsed by Namco Bandai Games Inc., owners of the Pac-Man and Puckman
registered trademarks and copyrights. Any trademarks used herein are
the property of their respective owners. No mention of a trademark,
trademark owner, or other party shall be construed as an endorsement
of MyMan or any other product by any party. If you believe that by
using or posessing MyMan the rights of others would be infringed, you
are strongly encouraged to cease using MyMan and its derivatives and
delete all copies of the MyMan software and its derivatives, and to
inform the author or authors of MyMan and the distributor or
distributors from whom you obtained MyMan of the reasons for such
belief so that the infringing part may be removed or replaced. Any
imitation by MyMan of other software is intended to be purely for
purposes of humor and amusement.
.PP
Please see the file
.I @privatedocdir@/LICENSE
for author contact information.
.PP
Please see the file
.I @privatedocdir@/COPYRIGHT
for copyright information.
.PP
Press ? or Ctrl-H during the game for help and additional notices.
.SS "VERSION"
.PP
This manual page was generated for @MYMAN@ @MYMANVERSION@. Please check
the output of \fB@MYMAN_EXE@ \-\-version\fP to make sure you're using a
corresponding version of the \fB@MYMAN@\fP program.
.SS "GETTING STARTED"
.PP
Start playing MyMan by typing
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
(to play MyMan on @CURSES_FLAVOR_TARGET@), or
.B @XMYMAN_EXE@
(to play MyMan in full color inside a new window under the X Window
System.) Move MyMan using the arrow keys. The alternate keys
.BR H ,
.BR J ,
.BR K ,
and
.B L
are available for vi (1) users.
The alternate keys
.BR Ctrl-B ,
.BR Ctrl-N ,
.BR Ctrl-P ,
and
.B Ctrl-F
are available for emacs (1) users.
Press the
.B Q
key at any time to quit.  If the flashing power pellets are too small,
run
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
with the
.B \-o
command-line parameter or press
.BR O " or " 0
during the game.  If the maze walls are invisible or garbled, run
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
with the
.B \-a
command-line parameter or press
.B A
during the game.
.SS "ADVANCED"
.PP
See below, especially the
.B OPTIONS
and
.B USAGE
sections.
.TP
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
The
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
program plays the MyMan video game.
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
runs in text mode and displays on @CURSES_FLAVOR_TARGET@.
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
includes several maze variants inspired by similar games, and an
alternative ASCII-art display mode suitable for large terminal
screens.
.TP
.BR @XMYMAN_EXE@ ", " @XMYMAN2_EXE@ ", " @XMYMAN3_EXE@ ", " @XMYMAN4_EXE@ ", " @XBIGMAN_EXE@ ", " @XHUGEMAN_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN2_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN3_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN4_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN5_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN6_EXE@ ", and " @XQUACKMAN_EXE@
The
.BR @XMYMAN_EXE@ ", " @XBIGMAN_EXE@ ", " @XHUGEMAN_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN2_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN3_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN4_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN5_EXE@ ", " @XBITMAN6_EXE@ ", " @XQUACKMAN_EXE@
and
.B @XMYMAN3_EXE@
shell scripts are wrappers used to launch
.B @MYMAN@
inside a new window under the X Window system with approporiate colors
and fonts. They accept all of
.BR @MYMAN_EXE@ 's
options. They use either PDCurses for X (a.k.a. XCurses) or the
.BR xterm (1)
terminal emulator to open the new window.

The
.B @XMYMAN2_EXE@
.RB "shell script is similar to " @XMYMAN_EXE@ ", but uses the " rxvt "(1) terminal"
emulator instead of
.BR xterm (1) .

The
.B @XMYMAN3_EXE@
.RB "shell script is similar to " @XMYMAN_EXE@ ", but uses the " kterm "(1) terminal"
emulator instead of
.BR xterm (1) .

The
.B @XMYMAN_EXE@
and
.B @XMYMAN2_EXE@
shell scripts use altcharset translations (VT100-style graphics). The
.B @XMYMAN3_EXE@
script uses raw tile characters (CP437 or UCS/Unicode character graphics.) The
.B @XMYMAN4_EXE@
script uses raw tile characters (EUC-JP character graphics.) The
.B @XBIGMAN_EXE@
script uses large tiles and sprites (ASCII-art) for a more authentic
appearance, but this means you either see less of the game or need to
use a larger terminal emulator window (typically with a small font
size.) The
.B @XHUGEMAN_EXE@
script uses even larger ASCII-art and is usable only on
high-resolution displays. The
.BR @XBITMAN_EXE@ ,
.B @XBITMAN3_EXE@
and
.B @XBITMAN5_EXE@
scripts use ASCII-art or UCS/Unicode graphics to approximate a bitmap
display, and are only usable on high-resolution displays. The
.BR @XBITMAN2_EXE@ ,
.B @XBITMAN4_EXE@
and
.B @XBITMAN6_EXE@
scripts use ASCII-art or UCS/Unicode graphics to approximate a bitmap
display, and are only usable on very high-resolution displays. The
.B @XQUACKMAN_EXE@
script behaves like
.B @XMYMAN_EXE@
but selects maze, tile and sprites similar to those used in
YumPop.com's `Quackman'

Any necessary terminal emulators and fonts must be installed and
properly configured for these shell scripts to work.
.TP
.B @MYMAN_CT_EXE@
The @MYMAN_CT_EXE@
.B ctheme
script reconfigures the Linux console or
.BR xterm (1)
color palette for use with
.BR @MYMAN@ .
.\" .RE
.\" What other people say about MyMan:
.\" .TP
.\" .I "\*(lqvis\[~o]es lis\['e]rgicas de arte ascii ...\*(rq"
.\" .HTML <a href="http://www.dicas-l.unicamp.br/artigos/linux-modotexto/coluna05.html">
.\" <http://www.dicas-l.unicamp.br/artigos/linux-modotexto/coluna05.html>
.\" .HTML </a>
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Exit status zero indicates normal completion of the
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
program.
.TP
.B 1
Exit status one indicates an incomplete or damaged installation or
another abnormal situation causing the
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
program to exit unexpectedly.
.TP
.B 2
Exit status two indicates that unrecognized or unsupported
command-line parameters were given to
.BR @MYMAN_EXE@ .
.TP
.B other
In some cases the
.BR @XMYMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN2_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN3_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN4_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBIGMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XHUGEMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN2_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN3_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN4_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN5_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN6_EXE@ ,
and
.B @XQUACKMAN_EXE@
scripts may exit with another status as a result of inability to
connect to an X Window System display server, or as a result of
inability to start a terminal emulator. Receipt of an unhandled signal
may cause the process to exit with some other status.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are accepted by
.BR @MYMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN2_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN3_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN4_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBIGMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XHUGEMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN2_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN3_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN4_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN5_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN6_EXE@ ,
and
.BR @XQUACKMAN_EXE@ .
.PP
Required arguments to long options are required for short options too.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-variant=\fIvariant\fP
select game variant

variants included in this build:
.B @MYMANVARIANTS[*]@
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\-size=\fIsize\fP
select tile and sprite size

sizes included in this build:
.B @MYMANSIZES[*]@
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
print a brief usage message and exit
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keys
show keybindings and exit
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-legal
show legal notice and exit
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
print @MYMAN@ version and exit
.TP
.B \-b
enable sounds
.TP
.B \-q
disable sounds
.TP
.B \-c
enable color support
.TP
.B \-n
disable color support
.TP
.B \-B
use dim and bold attributes for missing colors
.TP
.B \-N
don't use dim and bold attributes for missing colors
.TP
.B \-o
use `o' for power pellets and bullet for dots
.TP
.B \-p
use bullet for power pellets and `.' for dots
.TP
.BI \-d " num"
delay
.I num
microseconds/refresh
.TP
.BI \-D " name" \fR[\fP= "value" \fR]\fP
define environment variable (default value is 1 if omitted)
.TP
.BI \-g " num"
play against
.I num
monsters
.TP
.BI \-l " num"
start with
.I num
lives
.TP
.B \-u
use the underline attribute for maze walls
.TP
.B \-a
use ASCII for altcharset translation
.TP
.B \-A
use your terminal's altcharset translations
.TP
.B \-i
scroll vertically by redrawing the screen
.TP
.B \-I
use your terminal's vertical scrolling capabilities
.TP
.B \-r
use raw tile characters (CP437 or UCS/Unicode character graphics)
.TP
.B \-R
use altcharset translations (VT100-style graphics)
.TP
.B \-e
use UCS/Unicode for internal representation of raw tile characters
.TP
.B \-E
use CP437 for internal representation of raw tile characters
.TP
.B \-x
reflect maze diagonally, exchanging the upper right and lower left corners
.TP
.B \-X
do not reflect maze
.TP
.B \-1
use default UCS/Unicode mapping
.TP
.B \-2
use CJK (fullwidth) UCS/Unicode mapping
.TP
.BI \-m " file"
use the maze in
.I file
.TP
.BI \-s " file"
use sprites from
.I file
.TP
.BI \-t " file"
use tiles from
.I file
.TP
.B \-M
write the maze to stdout in C format and exit
.TP
.B \-S
write sprites to stdout in C format and exit
.TP
.B \-T
write tiles to stdout in C format and exit
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
redirect stdout to
.I file
(append)
.TP
.BI \-F " file"
redirect stdout to
.I file
(truncate)
.SS "X TOOLKIT OPTIONS"
.PP
When
.B myman
is built with PDCurses for X (a.k.a. XCurses), standard X toolkit
options and XCurses options may be passed at the end of the command
line after a double dash (\fB\-\-\fP). Refer to the X Window System
documentation and the XCurses documentation for more information.
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following case-insensitive keystroke commands are recognized
during the game:
.TP
.BR Q " or " Ctrl-C :
quit the game
.TP
.BR P " or " ESC :
pause the game
.TP
.BR Ctrl-Q :
re-enable output (after Ctrl-S)
.TP
.BR R " or " Ctrl-L " or " Ctrl-R :
refresh (redraw) the screen
.TP
.BR @@ :
reset the display subsystem and refresh (redraw) the screen
.TP
.BR Ctrl-S :
inhibit output until Ctrl-Q is typed
.TP
.BR S :
toggle sound on/off
.TP
.BR W :
warp to the next level (after consuming the next dot)
.TP
.BR C :
toggle color on/off (if enabled at compile-time)
.TP
.BR B :
toggle use of dim and bold attributes for missing colors
.TP
.BR U :
toggle underlining of walls on/off (if enabled at compile-time)
.TP
.BR D :
toggle maze debugging on/off
.TP
.BR T :
save an HTML screenshot to the file \fIsnap####@HTM_SUFFIX@\fP, where
\fI####\fP is a four-digit sequence number, and flash the screen
briefly; a plain text (UTF-8) version is saved as
\fIsnap####@TXT_SUFFIX@\fP using backspacing to represent underlined
and bold text
.TP
.BR O " or " 0 :
toggle appearance of power pellets and dots
.TP
.BR A :
toggle between ASCII altcharset translations and your terminal's
altcharset translations
.TP
.BR I :
toggle between using your terminal's vertical scrolling capabilities and
redrawing the screen
.TP
.BR X :
toggle between raw tile characters (CP437 or UCS/Unicode character
graphics) and altcharset translations (VT100-style graphics)
.TP
.BR E :
toggle between UCS/Unicode and CP437 for internal representation of
raw tile characters
.TP
.BR H ", " 4 ", " Ctrl-B " or " LEFT :
move left
.TP
.BR J ", " 2 ", " Ctrl-N " or " DOWN :
move down
.TP
.BR K ", " 8 ", " Ctrl-P " or " UP :
move up
.TP
.BR L ", " 6 ", " Ctrl-F " or " RIGHT :
move right
.TP
.BR , " (comma) or " < :
forget previously buffered vertical movement
.TP
.BR . " (full stop) or " > :
forget previously buffered horizontal movement
.TP
.BR / " or " \\ :
toggle diagonal maze reflection
.TP
.BR ! :
display information about the maze, tileset and spriteset
.TP
.BR ? " or " Ctrl-H :
display help screen
.PP
The pager recognizes the following special commands:
.TP
.BR SPACE :
display next page or finish
.TP
.BR ESC :
finish immediately
.TP
Move left then right with no intervening keystrokes:
equivalent to ESC
.SH FILES
.PP
The following directories are used by MyMan:
.I @mazedir@
Directory of maze datafiles.
.I @tiledir@
Directory of tile datafiles.
.I @spritedir@
Directory of sprite datafiles.
.TP
.I @privatedocdir@
Directory of documentation.
.PP
Refer to the
.BR @CURSES_FLAVOR@ (@CURSES_FLAVOR_SECTION@)
manual for additional information.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
Certain environment variables influence the program's behavior. See the file
.I @privatedocdir@/README
for more details. Refer to the
.BR @CURSES_FLAVOR@ (@CURSES_FLAVOR_SECTION@)
manual for additional information.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The following diagnostic messages may appear while trying to run
.BR @MYMAN_EXE@ :
.TP
.B "Summary: @MYMAN_EXE@ [\-\-help] [\-\-version] [options]"
.TP
.B "Usage: @MYMAN_EXE@ [\-h] [options]"
.TP
.B "@MYMAN_EXE@: argument to \-d must be an unsigned long integer."
Command line parameters do not conform to option language (see
.B OPTIONS
above.)
.TP
.B "@MYMAN_EXE@: compile with \-DMYMANDELAY=1 to enable the \-d option."
.TP
.B "@MYMAN_EXE@: compile with \-DUSE_ATTR=1 to enable the \-u option."
.TP
.B "@MYMAN_EXE@: compile with \-DUSE_COLOR=1 to enable color support."
Support for the specified option was not included in your
.B @MYMAN@
installation.
.TP
.IB size ": unrecognized size"
The tile and sprite size
.I size
is not included in your
.B @MYMAN@
installation (see
.B SIZES
above.) You may need to enable it and recompile.
.TP
.IB variant ": unrecognized variant"
The game variant
.I variant
is not included in your
.B @MYMAN@
installation (see
.B VARIANTS
above.) You may need to enable it and recompile.
.TP
.IB ... " @MYMAN_EXE@: command not found"
.TP
.IB ... " @MYMAN_EXE@: not found"
.TP
.BI "@MYMAN_EXE@: game variant `" variant "' not included in this binary"
.TP
.BI "@MYMAN_EXE@: game size `" size "' not included in this binary"
Your
.B @MYMAN@
installation is incomplete or damaged. You need to re-install MyMan.
.TP
.IB file ": can't find an index"
.TP
.IB file ": invalid index " index " ignored"
.TP
.IB file ": duplicate definition for " index
.TP
.IB file ": can't find a color for index " index
.TP
.IB file ": invalid color " colorcode " ignored"
.TP
.IB file ": premature EOF in index " index
The tile or sprite file
.I file
does not follow the format required by the
.B @MYMAN@
font reader. See the file
.I @privatedocdir@/README
for more details.
.TP
.IB file ": can't find a dimension specification N WxH"
.TP
.IB file ": premature EOF"
The maze file
.I file
does not follow the format required by the
.B @MYMAN@
maze reader. See the file
.I @privatedocdir@/README
for more details.
.TP
.IB file ": Permission denied"
.TP
.IB file ": No such file or directory"
An attempt to access the file
.I file
failed.
.TP
.BI "@MYMAN_EXE@: scored " points " points"
You quit. I hope you enjoyed the game!
.TP
.BI "Error: no DISPLAY variable set " ... " Killed"
PDCurses for X (a.k.a. XCurses) was unable to determine the name of
your X Window System display server. Refer to your X Window System
documentation for further information.
.PP
Additional diagnostics generated by the
.BR @XMYMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN2_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN3_EXE@ ,
.BR @XMYMAN4_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBIGMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XHUGEMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN2_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN3_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN4_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN5_EXE@ ,
.BR @XBITMAN6_EXE@ ,
and
.B @XQUACKMAN_EXE@
shell scripts:
.TP
.IB ... " xterm: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " xterm: No such file or directory"
.TP
.IB ... " rxvt: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " rxvt: No such file or directory"
.TP
.IB ... " kterm: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " kterm: No such file or directory"
.TP
.IB ... " /usr/bin/ctheme: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " /usr/bin/ctheme: No such file or directory"
.TP
.IB ... " /bin/sh: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " /bin/sh: No such file or directory"
.TP
.IB ... " basename: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " basename: No such file or directory"
.TP
.IB ... " rm: not found"
.TP
.IB ... " rm: No such file or directory"
The named utility program is missing or not in your
.B PATH
search list.
.TP
\fBxterm:  unable to open font "\fIfontname\fP", trying "fixed"\fP
.TP
\fBrxvt: can't load font "\fIfontname\fP"\fP
The font specified by
.I fontname
is not available on your X Window System display server.
.SH SECURITY
.PP
Although no vulnerabilities are known, it is recommended that
.B @MYMAN_EXE@
and related programs not be installed setuid-root.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This is still considered a non-standard command, but by installing it
you bring us one step closer to world domination.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
.B \-o
option or the
.BR O " or " 0
command is frequently needed for correct display.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Probably lots. Some of the more annoying known bugs:
.TP
.B "Broken or Missing Character Graphics (i.e. Mangled Maze Walls)"
MyMan uses character graphics to represent maze walls, power pellets,
and other graphic elements. Usually these character graphics are
rendered using altcharset translations (VT100-style graphics,) but
they can be rendered using ASCII-art or raw tile characters (either
CP437 bytes or UCS/Unicode characters.)

For these character graphics to be displayed properly, several pieces
of software must work together:
.BR @MYMAN@ (6),
.BR @CURSES_FLAVOR@ (@CURSES_FLAVOR_SECTION@),
and @CURSES_FLAVOR_TARGET@ (including any necessary fonts.)
Interactions between these pieces of software may be affected by
environment variables,
.BR locale (7)
settings, command-line parameters, other configuration settings, and
perhaps even the occultation of natural satellites. A misalignment
between two of these pieces can cause the character graphics to become
garbled, or even cause them to disappear entirely.
.\" USE_ACS USE_RAW USE_RAW_UCS
.\" T       T       F               raw CP437 bytes
.\" T       T       T               UCS/Unicode, fallback to...
.\" T       F       -               altcharset translations, fallback to...
.\" F       -       -               ASCII-art

You may work around these problems by using the
.B \-a
option or the
.B A
command to switch to plain ASCII-art.
.TP
.B "Buggy Monster Behavior"
The monsters sometimes become lost and are unable to find their way
home, or fail to follow the player into obvious hiding places. Some
mazes confuse the monsters more than others.
.TP
.B "Lacking Standard Documentation Formats"
There should be a Texinfo manual for MyMan, and some sort of
human-readable manual should be included in the source distribution.
.TP
.B "Inaccurate Status Line in HTML and text Screenshots"
The screenshot mechanism does not accurately reflect the overlaying of
the status line on top of the maze, so the screen shot may be one line
too tall, and will include any parts of the maze that are actually
obscured by the status line.
.TP
.B "Inaccurate HTML and text Screenshots"
The HTML and text screenshots record MyMan's internal representation
of the terminal screen, which may not agree with what you see in terms
of graphic characters (actual rendering varies among terminals and
across curses implementations,) color (some terminals and curses
libraries don't support palette manipulation,) and font (MyMan has no
way to guess what your terminal font looks like.)

Also, different web browsers and fonts will affect rendering of the
screenshot itself. Some browsers and fonts render line-drawing
graphics characters at different visual widths from plain ASCII
characters. Other browsers substitute their own inadequate ASCII
replacements. A few web browsers are unable to display line-drawing
graphics characters at all, or require the user to manually select the
\*(lqUser Defined\*(rq encoding.

If your terminal is configured to use raw CP437 tile characters, the
screenshot will contain raw CP437 data.  Otherwise UCS/Unicode numeric
character references will be used and the document will be labeled as
UTF-8. Some web browsers do not support CP437, others do not support
numeric character references in UTF-8, and still others support
neither!

You may work around these problems using the
.B \-a
option or the
.B A
command to switch to plain ASCII-art and the
.B \-n
option or the
.B C
command to disable color before taking a screenshot to be sure that
what you see is what you get.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Please mail bug reports to
.HTML <a href="mailto:bsittler@gmail.com">
"Benjamin C. W. Sittler" <bsittler@gmail.com>
.HTML </a>
.SH "HISTORY"
MyMan was written on a dare on Sunday, 1998-06-28. The original
version had no color or attribute support and only supported large
tiles (equivalent to \-z big.) It was 742 lines of ANSI C and used
three data files: a maze file (equivalent to \-v pac), a tile file and
a sprite file. It worked with ncurses on Linux and cygwin. Several
variations using other maze layouts were created over the following
hours. Color came in December of that year, as did support for small
tiles (equivalent to \-z small.) The my_getopt argument parser is a
bit older, having been started in 1997 as part of the SMOKE-16
project.
.SH "ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS"
Toru Iwatani had the original idea for Namco's `Pac-Man'/`Puck-Man',
which in turn served as inspiration for this game.
Innumerable others have written their own variants of the original
game which in turn inspired variants for this game, and I have tried
to credit them where authorship is known. Credits for each variant are
listed in the in-game help screen reachable by pressing ? or Ctrl-H.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xterm (1),
.BR phoon (1),
.BR xphoon (1),
.BR @CURSES_FLAVOR@ (@CURSES_FLAVOR_SECTION@),
.BR locale (7),
.BR X (7)
.TP
.B Home Page for `MyMan'
.HTML <a href="@MYMANWEBSITE@">
<@MYMANWEBSITE@>
.HTML </a>
.TP
.B SourceForge Project Page for `ctheme'
.HTML <a href="http://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=2640">
<http://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=2640>
.HTML </a>
